[Music]
so that's why jeans are below and other
fashionable facts how much do you know
about the basics in your wardrobe
t-shirts jeans sneakers polos sunglasses
off the top of your head huh you
probably know their size color brand
perhaps price and which ones look the
best on you what you may not know
however is the surprising history behind
some of your favorite garments before
you learn all kinds of interesting and
fun facts about your claws hit that
subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us here on the
bright side now let's start with the
first question at hand
why are jeans blue actually why are they
called jeans in the first place
well Italian sailors from the port of
Genoa were informally known as jeans
since they wore twilled cotton pants the
term jeans became synonymous with these
unique cotton trousers and although they
come in lots of different colors these
days blue is the most predominant color
by far why is that it has to do with the
chemical properties of dye most natural
dyes penetrate fabric and hot
temperatures making the color stick
natural indigo dye on the other hand
sticks only to the outer surface of the
thread each time it's washed small
amounts of dye get washed away taking
some of the thread with them that's why
the more you wash your jeans the more
they fade this loss of thread also
explains why your jeans become softer
and more comfortable with each wash no
wonder we never wanna part with our
favorite pair now since we're on the
topic of jeans let's tackle a highly
important question we've all won
at one point or another what's that
teeny-tiny pocket right above your
actual right front pocket for well I
wondered about it seems way too small to
serve any sort of purpose doesn't it in
fact it feels like it hinders more than
it helps always getting in the way when
you're trying to shove something into
your real pocket well over the years
it's had several names including coin
pocket match pocket condom pocket and
ticket pocket whoa back up did people
really carry condoms in their
well okay then anyway that little pocket
dates to the first blue jeans produced
by the Levi Strauss company back in 1879
as for its intended use at that time it
was to provide protection for the pocket
watches worn by working men like gold
miners railroad engineers and cowboys
more recently of course you'll also
probably remember that Michael Jackson
made Billie Jean's famous back in the
80s everybody was wearing them now I
just made that up
all right enough about jeans let's tuck
in our shirt tails or better yet tell
some shirt tales number one polo shirts
were created for tennis okay I know what
you're thinking are you sure about that
I've only seen the iconic polo pony ride
on the front well hold your horses and
I'll explain when Johnny Brooks visited
England at the end of the 19th century
he noticed that polo players would
button-down their collars to prevent
them from flapping in their faces as
they play upon returning to the US he
incorporated this detail into his own
shirt designs to this day the Brooks
Brothers Oxford cotton button-down shirt
still says the original polo shirt on
its label but this is still your classic
long-sleeve button-down not the one we
all imagine when we think of polos enter
French tennis star Rene Lacoste
who shocked the sporting world by
adopting a short sleeve 3 button shirt
while most players were still wearing
the standard long-sleeved ones his
nickname was the crocodile and this
reptile icon soon appeared on the shirts
left breast
in the 1960s us clothing manufacturer
Izod started making Lacoste
tennis shirts from polyester a new
material that wouldn't fade or wear out
and that's where the final player in
this story comes in Ralph Lauren he
loved the way the old Cana Lacoste
shirts aged so he created his ideal
version of the knit shirt with a pony
logo on the chest hmm
polo tennis I'm still confused so hey
let's combine polo and tennis and make
the tennis players have to hit their
shots while on horseback and if they
somehow fell off their ponies then
they'd be eaten by crocodiles yeah I'd
watch that number 2 t-shirts used to be
strictly undergarments available in any
color and with any pattern logo or
message imaginable t-shirts are as
individualistic as we are but that
wasn't always the case at first workers
wore them exclusively as an undergarment
in the early 20th century the Navy
issued short sleeve white cotton shirts
for sailors to wear under their uniforms
and the army soon adopted them as well
but wearing one out in public was still
considered scandalous gradually they
caught on though the t-shirt got its
name from its shape which resembles the
letter Q aha you were listening weren't
you the Oxford English Dictionary
credits American author F scott
Fitzgerald as the first to use the word
t-shirt in print in his novel this side
of paradise it became an official word
in the merriam-webster dictionary in the
1920s the first graphic tee had the Air
Corps gunnery school logo written on it
and it was shown on the cover of Life
magazine in 1942 Disney characters like
Mickey Mouse appeared on t-shirts in the
early night
50s and when heartthrobs Marlon Brando
and James Dean wore them in their
classic films a streetcar named desire
and rebel without a cause the popularity
of the t-shirt exploded and the rest as
they say is history number three the
first sunglasses were created for
syphilis patients yes they protect our
eyes from the Sun but hey let's admit it
the real reason we love our shades is
that they make us look super cool like
all those glamorous Hollywood stars and
that is a big part of the history movie
star started wearing sunglasses in the
1920s for a couple of reasons
the flashes from photographers cameras
were blinding and early film lighting
left actors with red watery eyes that
they wanted to hide from their fans of
course once film stars started wearing
them well naturally everyone else did
too I mean what's cooler than looking
like a movie star wait I know looking
like a movie star and a fighter pilot
but when they first started offering
better protection from light in the 19th
century protection from the sun's rays
wasn't a concern yet and wearing them
was anything but cool that's because
they were commonly prescribed for people
suffering from syphilis since one of the
symptoms of this disease is sensitivity
to light number four the extra holes in
your converse shoes aren't for looks
that classic stripe along the side of
the sole round patches with the iconic
star over each ankle and two extra holes
on the sides converse all-stars are
probably the world's most popular and
instantly recognizable sneaker first
introduced in 1907 these shoes design
hasn't changed much in almost a hundred
years that's a pretty big deal in the
shoe industry given that most companies
change their designs every year to
understand just how popular chucks are
consider this converse made 550 million
pairs of them in 1997 that was enough
for about
one in every 10 people in the world as
for those two holes they serve two
purposes
the first is pretty obvious to most
people extra ventilation after all these
shoes were originally designed for
athletes basketball player to be precise
the second reason is to provide
additional lacing options both for style
and function check out some videos
online for ways to jazz up your laces
and provide a tighter more stable fit
number 5 the buttons on women's and
men's shirts are on opposite sides
unless you've tried on a shirt that was
designed for the opposite sex hmm
when would that ever happen you might
not have ever noticed this little detail
so why are the buttons on men's and
women's shirts on different sides well
it seems we have the wealthy ladies of
the Victorian era to thank for this
thank you ladies back in the mid to late
1800s women's clothing was way more
complicated than men's so much so that
women needed assistance in getting
dressed thus their articles of clothing
were designed in a way that made it
easier for other people like assistants
and servants to button them up as
technology made buttons easier and
cheaper to produce they became available
for all classes of women they remained
on the left side so that the masses
could emulate the styles of the rich and
pampered so there hey do you know any
other interesting or bizarre facts about
clothes let everyone know in the
comments below don't forget to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
you